(18:02:38) intrigeri: https://tails.boum.org/contribute/meetings/ has new info BTW. just linked https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/monthly_meeting/ to it.
(18:02:39) geb: I am here for the meeting (mostly if not only to listen)
(18:02:46) masha: here as well
(18:03:20) spriver: hi!
(18:03:27) intrigeri: I can take notes. Who wants to host?
(18:04:37) intrigeri: (too tired to host, sorry.)
(18:04:51) masha: that's my first since a (very) long time, so I'd
rather not take over any specific role if possible. Even the sacrifice
in my head is loud
(18:05:05) nodens a rejoint le salon.
(18:05:08) intrigeri: masha: got it, thanks for being here :)
(18:05:11) nodens: Hi there
(18:05:32) nodens: Sorry I'm late, no battery on the laptop, using phone ;)
(18:05:45) nodens: So can't host...
(18:06:19) sajolida: i can host but:
- i haven't looked at the agenda
- i'll leave at 21:10 no matter what
(18:06:42) masha: well no longer that 1hr meeting, right?
(18:07:08) intrigeri: sounds good to me, I don't want to have a longer
one anyway.
(18:07:18) nodens: Perfect for me too
(18:07:21) intrigeri: sajolida: let's start, then :)
(18:08:08) sajolida: ok, i'll host until 21:10 :)
(18:08:33) sajolida: i'll have a look at the agenda and see if some
points are ready to be discussed
(18:08:36) intrigeri: I'll take notes until 21:10
(18:08:47) sajolida: in the meantime, feel free to list other possible
topics right here (ticket number)
(18:09:11) sajolida: and as an alternative we can discuss some of the
proposals that we came up with on tails@ about reviving these meetings
(18:09:22) masha: ok
(18:09:26) ***sajolida taking 2 minutes to check the agenda (you should
do the same!)
(18:10:36) sajolida: uff, there are 10 topics... i wonder how any are
ready to be discussed
(18:10:47) sajolida: if anybody knows of a topic that's ready to be
discuss, please help me out!
(18:10:59) masha: (where's the agenda? sorry)
(18:11:06) spriver: masha: https://tails.boum.org/blueprint/monthly_meeting/
(18:11:08) intrigeri: masha: see links I've pasted above
(18:11:17) sajolida: spriver: thanks!
(18:11:38) masha: ah yeah I checked those out but slipped over
(18:11:44) intrigeri: sajolida: #12486, #8253 seem to be ready.
(18:12:01) u a rejoint le salon.
(18:12:04) intrigeri: sajolida: many of the others seem not exactly
ready or suitable for a meeting, but I'm unsure.
(18:12:05) u: hey!
(18:12:13) u: sorry i did not see how late it is
(18:12:19) intrigeri: muri: if you're around, it would be nice to have
Tailsbot for the meeting :)
(18:12:30) spriver: hey u!
(18:12:42) Tailsbot a rejoint le salon.
(18:12:55) sajolida: u being here #12486 (Flattr sounds good)
(18:12:56) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #12486: Consider dropping flattr
versus making it more prominent on our website
https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/12486
(18:13:00) sajolida: let's start with this one then!
(18:13:13) sajolida: so, everybody please take 2 minutes to read through
the whole ticket
(18:13:18) u: yes
(18:13:34) sajolida: and ask any comprehension question that you might have
(18:13:37) masha: I don't know nothing about those topics, won't help much
(18:13:42) masha: ok
(18:14:11) u: masha: it's all in the ticket i hope
(18:14:21) spriver: my opinion: drop it entirely
(18:14:31) intrigeri: u: the only place where we display the Flattr
button currently is https://tails.boum.org/donate/, right?
(18:14:48) u: yes
(18:15:17) masha: u: I was speaking in general (those ~1à tickets)
(18:15:17) sajolida: intrigeri: yes! it's only on /donate
(18:15:24) u: ack masha
(18:15:28) intrigeri: u: 2nd question: how much work is it to keep it?
and would displaying this button on more pages imply more maintenance
work (once the bootstrapping work is done)?
(18:15:52) masha: pretty small button
(18:16:16) sajolida: work for status quo: none, *but* we never actually
got money out of Flattr I think and you need to do some kind of dance
before being able to do that...
(18:16:20) u: it's not a lot of work to keep it. however considering
that our monthly revenue is ~ 8 € currently, i think it costs us more to
login , retrieve the money etc.
(18:16:42) u: and adding it to more pages is no maintenance work, but a
lot of bootstrapping
(18:16:49) sajolida: putting it on *all* page, via the sidebar for
example, would take very little time
sajolida segfault spriver
(18:17:03) masha: sajolida: but then why only flattr?
(18:17:09) u: my point is that i dont think that adding it is cool, not
that many people use flattr at all, according to statistics
(18:17:11) nodens: The purchase by eyeo is a bit scary to me
(18:17:19) intrigeri: putting it on the release notes template doesn't
sound too much work either, but u says "a lot of bootstrapping" so
perhaps I'm guessing wrong.
(18:17:19) spriver: nodens: ack
(18:17:34) u: and, correct, nodens: the fact that the company has been
bought is not trustworthy
(18:17:58) nodens: We don't know what they'll do with it and it might
mean more work in the near future to remove it
(18:18:04) sajolida: i initially thought that we could try to put it on
the sidebar for a couple of months and then see if our revenue increase
significantly: work very little (2-3 hours?) but it will add visual
garbage to our website
(18:18:07) masha: so why not giving it up now?
(18:18:17) masha: sajolida: nice proposal
(18:18:49) u: maybe it is not a lot of work to add it to the release
template but we already link to donate and i dont see why we should link
to one particular thing that is currently not bringing us any revenue
(18:19:16) intrigeri: Meta: to me that's really a question of where our
fundraising efforts are best spent. Whatever work we put into Flattr, we
won't put elsewhere.
(18:19:17) sajolida: because the initial concept behind Flattr is that
you would flattr content that you like as you browse the web, and so by
having it only on /donate we're quite far from the original concept
(18:19:35) u: intrigeri: absolutely
(18:19:37) sajolida: intrigeri: right as well
(18:19:42) spriver: intrigeri: ack
(18:19:43) u: intrigeri: and i think that's basically the point
(18:20:24) sajolida: so the question is whether we're ready to make a
bet and invest 2-3 hours of fundraising to test Flattr on all pages
(18:20:34) nodens: Agree with sajolida: if we want to keep it only
donate is useless
(18:20:49) u: so to me: keeping it on donate: i'm fine with that.
dropping it: i'm also fine with this, because i dont believe in it.
putting more work into it: i dont think it's gonna pay us back.
(18:20:52) nodens: But if it's to have to remove it afterwards...
(18:21:39) masha: well, removing is only a 8€/month lost, and answers
nodens concerns as well?
(18:21:49) intrigeri: Keeping it on /donate only implies we will have to
do the work to retrieve the money anyway. So if we want to keep it, I
see display it in more visible places such as release notes or all
pages, to make it (hopefully) worth the effort to retrieve the money.
Otherwise, drop it.
(18:22:15) u: sajolida: what about you?
(18:22:29) u: your proposal is to try and see and then remove it
(18:22:31) u: ?
(18:23:00) sajolida: i have no position actually :)
(18:23:19) sajolida: i'm completely unsure what's best
(18:23:29) nodens: If it's really very little work to try and see, I
would be ok with it since it also give time to see what eyeo is going to
do with it
(18:23:47) sajolida: so, could everybody summarize what's his or her
opinon, quickly between 1. status quo, 2. drop, 3. try to put it everywhere
(18:24:10) sajolida: "opinion" = "preferred option"
(18:24:20) sajolida: me: 0 (i'm lost!)
(18:24:25) masha: aha
(18:24:27) masha: cheater
(18:24:42) intrigeri: 3 = 2 >> 1
(18:24:44) ***masha 2
(18:25:22) u: intrigeri: what does this mean?
(18:25:28) intrigeri: But wait, are we going to retrieve the money we
*already* have at Flattr? If yes, then 3>2>1
(18:25:35) u: intrigeri: sure
(18:25:39) sajolida: intrigeri: like 3 as much as 2 but prefers both over 1
(18:25:47) intrigeri: yes.
(18:26:09) sajolida: spriver: you were for 1?
(18:26:16) sajolida: sorry: 2?
(18:26:23) intrigeri: OK, so if we have to do some work anyway to get
very little money, I say let's spend 2 more hours and hope we will get
more (which will make the effort of retrieving the money more worthwhile).
(18:26:29) spriver: yup
(18:26:36) masha: intrigeri: OK, you got me
(18:26:41) masha: well money does
(18:27:00) nodens: 3 = 2 > 1 (but opinion might change depending on eyeo
to 2 > 1 > 3 )
(18:27:03) sajolida: i'll log into Flattr and check how much money we
have there
(18:27:18) masha: ok cool
(18:27:53) u: ok let's see, i just read wikipedia again: apparently
flattr limits a user to give more than 50 EUR per month
(18:28:01) u: just fyi it will never be a lot
(18:28:45) u: i think 2 > 1 > 3
(18:28:47) intrigeri: (I can live with 2 and we get rid of this, anyway,
even though I now slightly prefer 3)
(18:29:03) u: if i dont have to do 3, please go ahead
(18:29:32) u: because that's what it boils down to, no?
(18:30:15) intrigeri: Yes. Either get the money now and remove the
button / close the account, or add more links and get the money later
(and then maybe remove the button / close the account, or not).
(18:30:18) drwhax: hey!
(18:30:35) sajolida a quitté le salon
(18:30:54) intrigeri: The only option I really see no use of is 1
(status quo), whose cost/benefit ratio seems terrible.
(18:31:08) intrigeri: Crap, we lost sajolida who was hosting :/
(18:31:20) drwhax: sorry im late
(18:31:38) u: ack so lets try to put it everywhere for a limited amount
of time and if it does not work, remove it
(18:31:58) spriver: u: sounds good for me
(18:32:04) masha: should we define that period? like 3months?
(18:32:04) sajolida a rejoint le salon.
(18:32:15) sajolida: balance 181€
(18:32:19) u: yes 3 months
(18:32:23) intrigeri: I say until next major release (3.2) + 2 weeks =
end of October.
(18:32:25) u: sajolida: in 2 years?
(18:32:50) masha: intrigeri: ok, that's 4months then, no big difference
(18:32:51) sajolida: yeap
(18:32:53) sajolida: 8€/month i told you :)
(18:33:01) u: and 10% of that 181 EUR go to flattr i believe
(18:33:08) intrigeri: well, that's 4 months if the change is done now. I
doubt it'll be done very quickly.
(18:33:16) masha: hum, sure
(18:33:18) u: intrigeri: ack
(18:33:29) nodens: Ack as well
(18:33:52) sajolida: ok, but then we're talking about adding it to the
sidebar: that's the option involving less work and more impact (but more
garbage on the site)
(18:34:01) intrigeri: Yes.
(18:34:13) u: yes
(18:34:22) u: we should try to make it integrate well
(18:34:26) u: in the sidebar
(18:34:34) intrigeri: … unless adding it to the release notes template
is not more work, then I think we should do that instead.
(18:35:07) u: its not more work
(18:35:14) intrigeri: (less garbage, closer to what Flattr is about)
(18:35:41) u: its a link
(18:35:45) segfault a quitté le salon
(18:35:49) u: ack then
(18:35:51) goupille a rejoint le salon.
(18:35:58) u: woah goupille! hey hey
(18:36:04) u: hi drwhax too
gagz geb goupille
(18:36:12) masha: goupille: welcome in the trap :)
(18:36:20) sajolida a quitté le salon (Disconnected: closed)
(18:36:36) u: only one hour of trap
(18:36:47) sajolida a rejoint le salon.
(18:36:59) goupille: :)
(18:37:05) u: so, everybody fine with this decision: try out flattr in
the release notes for 3 months until october/3.2 release and if it does
not work, drop it?
(18:37:13) drwhax: ack!
(18:37:16) intrigeri: tried adding to the release notes template locally
and it looks OK.
(18:37:21) geb: ack!
(18:37:23) spriver: u: ack!
(18:37:45) intrigeri: until 2 weeks after 3.2 please.
(18:37:49) masha: u: (h)ack
(18:37:56) u: ack intrigeri
(18:37:56) intrigeri: (because that's when people will see these release
notes :)
(18:37:58) nodens: Ack
(18:37:59) sajolida: hmm... i don't have the data here but our release
notes might represent only a fraction of visits on our website
(18:38:00) u: yes
(18:38:02) segfault a rejoint le salon.
(18:38:42) The account has disconnected and you are no longer in this
chat. You will automatically rejoin the chat when the account reconnects.
(18:35:39) u: its a link
(18:35:48) u: ack then
(18:35:56) u: woah goupille! hey hey
(18:36:03) u: hi drwhax too
(18:36:10) masha: goupille: welcome in the trap :)
(18:36:34) u: only one hour of trap
(18:36:57) goupille: :)
(18:37:03) u: so, everybody fine with this decision: try out flattr in
the release notes for 3 months until october/3.2 release and if it does
not work, drop it?
(18:37:12) drwhax: ack!
(18:37:14) intrigeri: tried adding to the release notes template locally
and it looks OK.
(18:37:19) geb: ack!
(18:37:21) spriver: u: ack!
(18:37:43) intrigeri: until 2 weeks after 3.2 please.
(18:37:47) masha: u: (h)ack
(18:37:54) u: ack intrigeri
(18:37:55) intrigeri: (because that's when people will see these release
notes :)
(18:37:57) nodens: Ack
(18:37:57) sajolida: hmm... i don't have the data here but our release
notes might represent only a fraction of visits on our website
(18:37:59) u: yes
(18:38:41) masha: next one?
(18:39:02) sajolida: i'm not happy with the previous decision but i
don't mind
(18:39:02) intrigeri: sajolida: if you prefer adding the button to the
sidebar, fine with me.
(18:39:08) u: i think sajolida wants to object and add it to the sidebar
instead
(18:39:19) u: i'M also fine with this, for 3 months.
(18:39:26) masha: fine with me
(18:39:29) sajolida: the idea was to dramatically increase the page view
with our Flattr but and my guess is that adding it to the release note
won't achieve that
(18:39:33) intrigeri: but that's lots more (CSS) work than what I just
did in 2 minutes in the release notes.
(18:39:34) u: and then revenue must significantly increase.
(18:39:35) sajolida: but i don't have the data to prove this
(18:39:52) u: intrigeri: yes
(18:39:53) sajolida: ok, then we add it to the sidebar for 3 months?
(18:40:02) intrigeri: OK.
(18:40:05) sajolida: cool
(18:40:18) u: ack
(18:40:21) intrigeri: sajolida: so you'll do it?
(18:40:27) sajolida: and we decide between on fundraising mailing list
who does that?
(18:40:38) sajolida: i don't mind doing it unless u is more eager than me :)
(18:40:48) sajolida: it's should be 1 commit
(18:40:53) intrigeri: u said she doesn't want to do it.
(18:41:05) sajolida: ok, then i'll do it!
(18:41:07) u: sajolida: haha, it's never only 1 commit
(18:41:08) u: :)
(18:41:14) geb: :)
(18:41:15) u: but i'm sure you know that.
(18:41:16) intrigeri: sajolida:  and if I do it you'll spend more time
polishing my stuff than if you do it yourself :P
(18:41:21) sajolida: so we're good with this topic. thanks everybody for
your patience → it was a bit boring!!!
(18:41:25) u: ack
(18:41:27) u: next
(18:41:38) sajolida: next is ....
(18:41:55) u: the last one should be easy i think
(18:41:57) sajolida: #8253
(18:41:58) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #8253: Ship a tool to quickly edit
(resize...) pictures https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/8253
(18:42:16) u: ack
(18:42:28) sajolida: everybody please take 2 minutes to read through the
whole ticket and ask comprehension questions if needed
(18:44:04) u: actually upstream looks even more dead than packaging:
https://git.gnome.org/browse/nautilus-image-converter/
(18:44:39) nodens: Also no answer on any bug reports on Debian
(18:44:40) masha: feels like there are 2 questions:
1. Does it fit Tails usecase
2. I yes, which tool?
(18:44:58) intrigeri: so these Nautilus plugins are all badly
maintained, either upstream or in Debian. yeah. With my foundations hat
team, I'd like to have a clear decision about how important this would
be if we add it, i.e. can we drop it if/once it's too buggy.
(18:45:53) intrigeri: I still think it's too borderline to our mission
to bother choosing/adding/maintaining such a thing, but a previous
meeting (that I didn't attend) disagreed. So I'll shut up and will only
wear my foundations team hat today.
(18:46:45) u: i think that such a tool would be nice. however the two
proposed ones are shit.
(18:46:55) u: instead, i propose to use:
https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Photos or eog
(18:46:57) nodens: Same as u
(18:47:02) intrigeri: And I already did the research I could (after that
meeting) 2y ago and then nothing moved, so I don't want a decision
without a volunteer to implement it, otherwise I'll be frustrated,
feeling we're running in circles.
(18:47:04) u: eog can rotate stuff and save stuff
(18:47:21) sajolida: done reading (you all read *fast*!)
(18:47:21) u: and this photo app which is in gnome by default is
apparently able to edit pictures
(18:47:34) intrigeri: u: the request is about "a bunch of pictures". I
doubt that eog can do that.
(18:47:50) intrigeri: we already ship at least 2 tools to resize *1*
picture :)
(18:48:03) u: intrigeri: yes, but for such treatment, there is
imagemagick, it is in tails 3.0 again
(18:48:16) intrigeri: u: that's CLI only, or?
(18:48:20) masha: but it still needs a GUI
(18:48:22) u: yes
(18:48:42) intrigeri: masha, goupille: is this something that users ask
regularly, or?
(18:49:01) goupille: not that I remember
(18:49:09) masha: I haven't been doing help desk, for the ~ last month,
but not that I remember
(18:50:06) masha: from my HD PoV it looks like a very user-specific
demand, who doesn't want to use already included software (for any reason)
(18:50:37) sajolida: i would be happy to include
nautilus-image-converter (maybe even without documentation) and drop it
if it becomes buggy...
(18:50:58) masha: it's been here for a long time, no decision, no
complains, and low prio, so why not adding it and be ok with trashing it
(18:51:07) intrigeri: (could not find how to batch-resize pics with
gnome-photos)
(18:51:37) sajolida: but i'm also happy to say it's a corner case and
that we don't want that in Tails because we're scared of shitty upstream
(18:52:15) u: https://tracker.debian.org/pkg/phatch what about that?
(18:52:17) intrigeri: s/shitty/MIA since 6 years/
(18:52:49) nodens: I know that gthumb can do it since I've used it for
this purpose
(18:53:36) nodens: But it might be heavy / far from current gnome UX
(18:53:56) nodens: (batch resize)
(18:53:59) sajolida: i don't think that the meeting is the right place
to open more options
(18:54:14) sajolida: but it's fine to agree that we need more research
on other options :)
(18:54:30) sajolida: putting this research Low prio maybe
(18:54:37) intrigeri: I propose: 0. someone volunteers to
research/implement whatever is decided: 1. we decide *if* we want any
such thing; 2. if we decide we do, then goto 0.
(18:54:41) masha: already in low prio I think
(18:55:22) u: ack intrigeri
(18:55:55) sajolida: well... saying that only the people here are
possible candidates for volunteering would be limiting
(18:55:57) u: volunteers?
(18:56:02) u: ack sajolida
(18:56:09) sajolida: this could be an "Easy" ticket open for other contribs
(18:56:16) u: sure
(18:56:39) cbrownstein a rejoint le salon.
(18:56:53) masha: sajolida: so what's your idea (if any)?
(18:56:53) intrigeri: OK. I'm fine with low priority + Research, if
someone turns it into an Easy ticket.
(18:57:18) sajolida: if we don't feel like discarting this idea now we
could put back the ticket in Research state, Low prio and state clearly
that we need to find a more convincing solution: GUI + good
UX/integration + actively maintained
(18:57:32) intrigeri: ACK.
(18:57:49) cbrownstein: hello all!
(18:57:56) intrigeri: + doesn't pull in too many dependencies we don't
already ship.
(18:58:24) masha: ok
(18:59:03) u: i can handle the ticket sajolida
(18:59:05) u: lets move on
(18:59:06) intrigeri: I'm not sure if anyone said they would disagree
with just rejecting this ticket, but well.
(18:59:25) masha: I'm totally fine rejecting it :)
(18:59:29) u: hm
(18:59:44) u: i'm fine rejecting it, but i also think it could be nice
to have another optio
(18:59:46) u: n
(18:59:59) nodens: No strong opinion.
(19:00:07) goupille: same
(19:00:16) spriver: same
(19:00:20) sajolida a quitté le salon (Disconnected: closed)
(19:00:23) masha: like someone showed up with this request, and then
Tails handles it. But might be a one shot from this person
(19:00:23) intrigeri: OK, anyway we have someone who cares enough to do
*something* about it, so IMO we can move on.
(19:00:26) sajolida a rejoint le salon.
(19:00:34) masha: all right
(19:00:52) intrigeri: 9 minutes left.
(19:01:02) sajolida: cbrownstein: hello!
(19:01:15) u: hi cbrownstein
(19:01:15) The account has disconnected and you are no longer in this
chat. You will automatically rejoin the chat when the account reconnects.
(18:57:54) intrigeri: + doesn't pull in too many dependencies we don't
already ship.
(18:58:22) masha: ok
(18:59:01) u: i can handle the ticket sajolida
(18:59:03) u: lets move on
(18:59:04) intrigeri: I'm not sure if anyone said they would disagree
with just rejecting this ticket, but well.
(18:59:23) masha: I'm totally fine rejecting it :)
(18:59:28) u: hm
(18:59:42) u: i'm fine rejecting it, but i also think it could be nice
to have another optio
(18:59:44) u: n
(18:59:57) nodens: No strong opinion.
(19:00:05) goupille: same
(19:00:15) spriver: same
(19:00:21) masha: like someone showed up with this request, and then
Tails handles it. But might be a one shot from this person
(19:00:21) intrigeri: OK, anyway we have someone who cares enough to do
*something* about it, so IMO we can move on.
(19:00:32) masha: all right
(19:00:50) intrigeri: 9 minutes left.
(19:01:01) sajolida: cbrownstein: hello!
(19:01:13) u: hi cbrownstein
(19:01:23) sajolida: intrigeri: it might be a bit more than 9, i'll tell you
(19:01:24) cbrownstein: been flying for the last 16 hours or so. just
arrived in vilnius, lithuania. :-)
(19:01:43) intrigeri: sajolida: maybe #12723
(19:01:43) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #12723: Discuss if GNOME's
screencast functionality has privacy implications
https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/12723
(19:02:07) masha: what about #7439
(19:02:08) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #7439: Decide whether to remove the
"clock synchronization" notification
https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/7439
(19:02:21) intrigeri: sajolida: well, I already drew conclusions AFK
from the fact we would stop at 21:10, so you'll need another note-taker
if you want to keep going after that time.
(19:02:22) sajolida: ok, let's see #12723
(19:02:23) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #12723: Discuss if GNOME's
screencast functionality has privacy implications
https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/12723
(19:02:36) u: i think this is pretty cool
(19:02:38) intrigeri: masha: #7439 doesn't fit in 8 minutes IMO.
(19:02:38) Tailsbot: Tails ☺ Feature #7439: Decide whether to remove the
"clock synchronization" notification
https://labs.riseup.net/code/issues/7439
(19:02:49) u: nope
(19:02:51) sajolida: everybody please take 2 minutes to read through the
whole ticket and ask comprehension questions if needed
(19:02:52) masha: intrigeri: ok, it was more interesting for help desk :)
(19:02:53) intrigeri: Tailsbot: so you're repeating yourself again now?
(19:02:57) intrigeri: muri: ^ regression
(19:03:00) cacahuatl a rejoint le salon.
(19:03:18) muri: intrigeri: thanks, noted ;)
(19:03:23) jsg a rejoint le salon.
(19:04:41) jsg a quitté le salon
(19:05:12) u: masha:  there are sooo many more meetings to come <33
(19:05:18) masha: the "debugging reason" thing isn't clear to me. Does
it mean people making videos of their bug and sending to us?
(19:05:25) u: yes
(19:05:35) masha: u: it's already christmas or what?
(19:06:01) u: :)
(19:06:04) masha: well, maybe goupille has also his 2 cents, but bug
report with video is hell
(19:06:17) goupille: +1
(19:06:19) u: because so much shit you have to look at then?
(19:06:27) u: describe: hell please
(19:06:29) intrigeri: for me (on -testers@) videos help a lot.
(19:06:32) nodens: It's unclear to me wether we're discussing the
possible privacy implications or "do we want this"
(19:06:35) masha: already dealing with picture encrypted with our list
key and not decrypted, etc.
(19:06:54) u: masha: we're not planning to integrate the videos to
whisperback
(19:07:00) goupille: u: people are uploading video on sites you don't
want to go download stuff
(19:07:06) masha: right
(19:07:06) u: it's basically just to make it possible to record them
(19:07:13) intrigeri: masha: crap, people still don't get PGP/MIME right
and encrypt attachments manually :/
(19:07:14) u: ack
(19:07:36) masha: intrigeri: it's worst with tech savvyy actually,
newbies are ok
(19:07:42) intrigeri: sajolida: there seem to be 2 different questions
asked.
(19:07:53) intrigeri: sajolida: shall we start with "do we want this?" ?
(19:07:58) u: goupille: but we could still tell them to upload them
somewhere specific maybe
(19:08:02) u: yes intrigeri
(19:08:04) u: i want this
(19:08:10) u: it's in gnome anyway
(19:08:24) sajolida: i just finished reading the ticket and your first
comments :)
(19:08:26) masha: so it's more a "do we want to leave it, or put effort
to remove it?"
(19:08:39) sajolida: intrigeri: can you restate the two question? :)
sorry i'm slower than all of you today!
(19:08:45) nodens: I think it can be useful and it's probably
complicated to remove
(19:09:01) intrigeri: I think it's a useful feature for various
usecases, it's in GNOME already, we already support taking screenshots,
I see no reason why we would *not* want this (modulo work time needed to
make it work nicer)
(19:09:07) u: sajolida: 1: do we want it?
(19:09:28) intrigeri: sajolida: 1. do we want this feature in Tails,
ignoring privacy/security implications?; 2. privacy/security implications?
(19:09:30) u: sajolida: 2: what should we do with it? advertise,
document, bug reports
(19:09:48) u: ack so my question is 3
(19:09:52) u: ^
(19:09:54) sajolida: ok, so let's start with one
(19:10:10) masha: intrigeri: what is "various usecases"?
(19:10:13) sajolida: i align with intrigeri: this is a feature of the
GNOME desktop, same as taking screenshots, etc.
(19:10:25) sajolida: i'm not sure to understand the concerns about the
privacy issues...
(19:10:28) intrigeri: I'm gone. Please someone take notes and email them
to me with the full log of the discussion. I'll handle the next notes
taking steps.
(19:10:38) intrigeri: see
https://tails.boum.org/contribute/meetings/#index2h1
(19:10:39) intrigeri: bye.
(19:10:40) u: masha: people can make screencasts and upload them to
reddit, youtube etc.
(19:10:44) geb: cya intrigeri
(19:10:48) spriver: we don't need to document officially, right? we can
point users do it in specific support cases, would this be enough?
(19:10:55) u: spriver: yes
(19:11:01) masha: bye intrigeri
(19:11:03) intrigeri a quitté le salon
(19:11:04) u: but let's first answer: do we want this?
(19:11:43) u: actually we said the meeting would last only 1 hour.
that's now.
(19:11:43) nodens: (would take notes but it's really hard on a phone)
(19:11:43) u: should we stop or continue thís question?
(19:11:43) sajolida: we didn't investigate the privacy issues of not
disabling taking screenshots with PrintScr :)
(19:11:47) u: nodens: haha
(19:11:50) masha: u: are you refering to people doing howto and stuff?
(19:11:58) u: masha: yes
(19:12:11) masha: ok, sonot much of our business actually
(19:12:42) u: nope
(19:12:44) sajolida: i personally like that feature and have already
been taking screencast of my Tails to help debug stuff
(19:12:50) masha: I agree that it's already there, and we don't have to
do much about it, like any other possibility from GNOME that don't
require specific Tails documentation
(19:12:51) goupille: I think I agree with "if it is there it should work"
(19:12:59) u: ack
(19:13:01) u: cool!
(19:13:09) sajolida: and muri seems to be interested in fixing it in Tails
(19:13:17) u: we can answer the next question in the next meeting?
(19:13:53) sajolida: so unless someone has initial hints on why we
should investigate the privacy security of this, i say we should tell
muri and go ahead investigating how to fix it
(19:14:08) sajolida: tell muri s/and/to/ go ahead
(19:14:11) u: sure
(19:14:33) spriver: sajolida: ack
(19:14:38) masha: OK
(19:14:38) u: sajolida: we should maybe try and see if metadata contains
the camera model
(19:14:41) u: for example
(19:14:42) drwhax: i mean, if tor isnt ready, there's little you can do,
un less one opens the unsafe browser...
(19:14:49) u: we/muri/whoever
(19:14:50) sajolida: u: which camera?!
(19:14:57) geb: u: screencast :)
(19:15:02) u: haha, right.
(19:15:06) sajolida: we're talking about taking a screencast of the
**screen**, not using the webcam
(19:15:09) masha: I'm not the only one "out"
(19:15:11) u: yeah yeah
(19:15:18) u: let's stop here then
(19:15:19) u: :D
(19:15:22) sajolida: it's about what's happening on the screen, like in
youtube tutorials and stuff
(19:15:24) spriver: tails peeking feature?
(19:15:27) geb: but screen resolution, fingerprint etc
(19:15:41) sajolida: right, screen resolution *will* be there
(19:16:00) u: yes
(19:16:01) sajolida: i'm not sure about the rest but i bet that muri has
the skills to investigate this enough himself
(19:16:05) u: so let's stop here?
(19:16:10) sajolida: if this is about metadata
(19:16:12) sajolida: yeah!
(19:16:19) sajolida: unless someone has something to add to this topic!
(19:16:25) u: nope
(19:16:38) u: let's stick to our new ideas of making this meeting less
painful
(19:16:41) masha: we could do a video about screencasting? :)
(19:16:43) u: :)
(19:16:49) drwhax: meta!
(19:16:50) geb: masha: stack overflow ;)
(19:16:54) u: masha: .p shall i create a ticket for you?
(19:17:01) masha: yes, elevated
(19:17:04) sajolida: someone should save the log of the whole meeting
and send it to intrigeri
(19:17:11) masha: I can do that, I guess
(19:17:20) u: ok masha
(19:17:25) sajolida: cool!
(19:17:27) u: i saved it too in case you.. forget :)
(19:17:35) masha: u: come on
(19:17:39) u: sajolida: will you update the tickets or should i do that?
(19:17:47) sajolida: ueee! i'm super happy we solve so maybe (boring)
tickets
(19:17:51) u: masha: my humour is often not very funny, sorry.
(19:17:55) sajolida: intrigeri should do that as part of the notetaking
(19:17:57) masha: I'll do it right now...hey, what is that interesting
YouTube link...
(19:18:00) u: sajolida: ack
(19:18:12) u: so have a nice evening!
(19:18:19) sajolida: see you!
(19:18:28) masha: u: I like not so funny humour
(19:18:33) u: :))))
(19:18:35) nodens: Oh, yes, that means food time.
(19:18:37) masha: it doesn't make people jealous
(19:18:43) nodens: Bye everyone ^^
(19:18:43) u: haha
(19:18:49) geb: I will leave soon. Good bye everybody. Was nice to read
you :).
(19:19:12) u: bye *, peace & <3 & good food.
(19:19:23) masha: bye bye everyone
(19:19:38) nodens: Thanks u, same ;)
